We always enjoy this part
at our Gilead graduations
—the student experiences
that they’ve had
from the field activity
while they were at school.
Kenneth Olson, an instructor
with Theocratic Schools Department,
will handle this part.
And they have the theme
“The Scene of This World Is Changing.”
The apostle Paul once wrote
to the congregation in Corinth:
“The scene of this world is changing.”
(1Co 7:31)
And in doing so,
he likened the world to a stage
with actors playing their various roles
until a change of scenes.
So surrounded
by the potential distractions
of the world
there in the first century,
our brothers needed to give
priority to spiritual matters.
True worship had to come first.
And an important way they showed
that they kept their spiritual focus
was through their obedience
to Jesus’ command to preach and teach.
And they did this in various ways.
Notice the example of the apostle Paul
at Acts 17:17.
There in Acts 17:17, it says:
“So he began to reason
in the synagogue with the Jews
“and the other people
who worshipped God
“and every day
in the marketplace
with those who happened
to be on hand.”
So we notice that Paul,
in the marketplace,
was ready to talk to whoever
happened to be on hand.
Now, he didn’t know who they would be,
but he was ready.
So the principles that apply then,
apply now
because many of the concerns
that people had back then,
people have now.
And so our work is
like it was in the first century.
Now, as Brother and Sister Cook
were traveling to Gilead School,
they, like Paul, were ready.
They were alert to speak with those
who happened to be on hand.
This time, it was not in the marketplace;
it was at a train station.
And notice how they were ready
to discuss various topics
as we watch this video reenactment.
Thank you so much, Manny,
for helping us with the bags.
We really appreciate that.
Well, you certainly have a lot of bags.
Where are you going?
We are going to Patterson, New York,
to attend a Bible school
for the next six months.
Really?
A six-month Bible school?
Wow, that is amazing!
Yeah, we’re Jehovah’s Witnesses, Manny.
I’m sure you’ve heard about us.
There’s our little card.
Yeah, I have seen Jehovah’s Witnesses
going from door to door.
You even go out when
the weather is really cold.
I have a lot of respect for you people.
Oh, thank you.
Well, we love sharing
the Bible message with people.
Here, Manny, on the back of this tract,
there’s a QR Code
and it takes you
to our website, jw.org.
So on there, there are publications
you can download and read,
but also there’s a section that answers
questions you might have about the Bible.
Hmm, that’s good.
I have some questions.
In fact,
my mother died last year.
She suffered for such a long time.
Oh, sorry.
So sorry to hear that.
We’re very sorry.
Losing someone
dear must be so difficult.
Yeah, well,
it kind of affected my faith.
You know,
she was a wonderful person.
Why did she have
to suffer like that?
I can understand you
feeling that way, Manny.
When you’ve lived a life like your mom,
and she’s been such a good person,
and then she suffers like that, I mean, it’s—
it’s difficult to bear, isn’t it?
It’s difficult to bear.
This tract, it’s asking the question:
“Will Suffering Ever End?”
Do you think that’s the sort of question
you’re really asking?
Yes, it is.
Well, thank you.
Thank you very much.
You know, I can stay with you
until your friend comes for you. That’s OK?
Oh, will you?
Oh, thank you!
Thank you!
Thank you very much!
I’ve been thinking about this.
You know,
the whole world is a mess.
We agree with you.
But why is it a mess?
I can show you another tract.
It does have an interesting question.
It says,
“Who Really Controls the World?”
And you will be surprised
to know the answer.
Notice what the Bible says:
“The Evil One controls the whole world.”
So did you notice who is in control?
What does the Bible say?
Hmm. It says the Evil One
—means the Devil?
That’s right.
Well, that explains why
the world is in such a bad condition.
Uh-huh.
And you know, Manny,
the Bible says that God has set up a kingdom
that is going to overrule the Devil,
and also He is going to bring
the suffering to an end.
Oh, may I have that tract as well?
Of course, yeah, this is for you.
I just wanted to point
on the back again in this tract
is our website
that Richard just mentioned.
If you would like,
you can go there,
and you can ask for somebody
to come and visit you,
and you can discuss
all the questions you have,
and they will answer you
from the Bible.
Oh, well, thank you very much.
Thank you.
You are welcome.
Excuse me,
Brother and Sister Cook?
Oh, this is our driver!
Yes, pleased to meet you!
Nice to meet you.
Thank you for collecting us.
Here are their bags.
Thank you.
Well, it was a pleasure meeting you.
Thank you, Manny.
We really appreciate all your help.
Thank you for your help.
Bye-bye.
Goodbye.
Take care.
So, hope you had
a good trip coming here.
Yeah, it was really good.
So, did you see how
Brother and Sister Cook were prepared?
They had literature ready.
They didn’t know who it would be
or what the topic would be,
but they were ready.
Another way that our first-century brothers
and sisters obeyed Jesus’ command
is found at Acts 5:42.
At Acts 5:42,
it says there:
“And every day in the temple
and from house to house
“they continued without letup
“teaching and declaring the good news
about the Christ, Jesus.”
So it says they went
“from house to house.”
Now, this was shortly
after Pentecost of 33 C.E.,
and already the young congregation
is active in the door-to-door ministry,
talking to people face-to-face.
And this work is still at the center
—it’s at the forefront—
of our worldwide preaching effort.
So contacting people directly
helps us to help them individually.
Now, in the first century,
Jesus helped people face-to-face,
very often with the resurrection hope.
He built them up;
he gave them hope.
Now we do the same.
However, very often,
when we talk to people from house to house,
we’re there,
we have a scripture, we’re prepared,
we have a topic
we want to talk about.
And all of a sudden,
the householder wants
to talk about what’s
on their mind and heart.
Essentially, they change the subject.
So, what do we do?
Well, an alert teacher will follow
the concern of the householder
and address that concern.
So watch how Brother Mbanzulu
followed the householder’s concern
and comforted him
with the resurrection hope
when he was invited into a man’s home
for the very first time.
And see how he changed the subject,
and Brother Mbanzulu followed it.
Thank you for inviting us in.
You’re welcome.
How would you describe
the situation in the world today?
I lost my wife a few years ago,
and life is not easy.
We are so sorry to hear
that you lost your wife.
That must be difficult to deal with.
It is difficult.
But I know you’re going to say
that I should be—
there’s the hope of the resurrection
and that with a little bit of money,
I’ll be able to see my wife again.
But I don’t know if I believe that.
Did someone say to you
that you need to pay something
like money to see your wife again?
Yes, that’s what the church said.
Oh, I’m so sorry to hear that.
But really, do you believe
that God needs our money?
Of course not!
But I don’t believe
that the resurrection is true.
What is your point of view?
Where do we come from?
I guess, of course,
there had to be
some person that made us.
Life just couldn’t come about by itself.
So I would say that person is God.
So let me give you an example.
Suppose that you own
a company that makes cars.
Let’s say you make Mercedes-Benz,
and you decide to give
a new one to your friend.
He’s very happy.
But the very first day
he drives that car, he has a crash.
Then he calls you;
he’s sad; he says,
“You know, I just had a crash.”
What will you say?
Just bring it back.
I’ll fix it.
But what if he said to you:
“Friend, I’m not sure you will fix it.
It’s totally broken.”
What will you say to him?
If I made it, I can fix it.
I could even make a new one.
You know, when something
does not work properly in our body,
or let’s say,
when our body stops working,
we call it death.
But actually,
from the point of view
of the One who created life,
we can say this is just like a crash.
Would you agree with that?
Yeah, I would agree with that.
And when this happens,
usually we are very sad
because that person that died
may be someone we really loved.
But could the One who created life
be able to fix the problem
or recreate that person?
Yeah, He should be able to do that.
But you know, we three here,
we’ve never seen someone
raised from the dead.
So talking about the resurrection
must be something strange to us.
And God understands that.
But you know what Jesus said
in the past when he was here on earth?
He said something very interesting,
and I would like to share it with you.
It’s found in the book of John,
chapter 5, verses 28 and 29.
And while Sulamite
is reading that scripture,
please try to imagine that God
is speaking to you personally.
Please Sula, can you read it?
Uh-huh.
John 5:28,29:
“Do not be amazed at this,
“for the hour is coming in which
all those in the memorial tombs
“will hear his voice and come out,
“those who did good things
to a resurrection of life,
and those who practiced vile things
to a resurrection of judgment.”
God knows that may look
impossible to you,
but he assures us
that this will take place.
It’s clear now.
You know, there are
many other good promises
in the Bible
from God for humankind.
And if you want,
we can help you to know them.
Yeah, I would like that.
Did you see
how Brother Mbanzulu was willing
to drop the topic
he wanted to talk about
and follow the concern
of the man instead?
Very loving and very alert.
Now, in the first century,
there were many different ideas
and philosophies of life.
Pontius Pilate expressed one
when he said to Jesus:
“What is truth?”
And he said that rather scornfully.
But today some feel unsure
if it’s possible to know truth.
Well, our first-century brothers
would often find
common ground with someone,
to reason with them
and help them see the point.
And we do the same today.
Watch how Sister Martinez
found common ground
to reason with a man
who seemed unsure
if it were possible to know truth.
Good morning, Sir.
Good morning.
I’m glad to find you here,
and we’re asking people
in the area a question,
and I’d like your opinion.
OK, sure.
Do you think
that it’s actually possible
for us to get to know
what the truth is,
living in a world
where more half-truths exist?
No, I don’t think so.
Nobody has the truth.
I’m sure you have
your own religion and, in fact,
your own translation of the Bible.
And everyone’s entitled
to believe what they
want to believe.
Yeah,
we all have the right to believe
in what we want to believe in.
But do you think that God
wants us to get to know
what the truth is?
Hmm, yeah, sure.
You know,
I noticed that you have an accent.
If you don’t mind me asking,
where are you from?
Oh, I don’t mind.
I’m from Ecuador.
Oh!
Wow!
You know,
I’ve been living in South America
for the past few years with my husband.
Oh, really?
What country?
In Paraguay.
Oh, yeah.
OK, I know Paraguay. Nice.
Yeah, you know,
they speak Spanish there also,
and they have
a little bit of an accent.
Uh-huh.
They also use certain expressions
that are unfamiliar to me.
But, generally,
I can understand what they’re saying.
True, it is slightly different.
Mhm.
This reminds me
of when we study the Bible.
For example,
the translation that we use,
they’re in many languages.
The Bible that we have in Spanish
wasn’t originally in Spanish.
It’s a translation.
Uh-huh.
Right.
And although one Bible
may differ slightly from another,
even within the same language,
they generally convey the same idea.
Hmm.
Yeah, that makes sense. Sure.
Now, do you think that God is aware
of these apparent difficulties that exist?
Hmm. Good question.
Yeah, I think so.
Yeah, he definitely has to know.
And, you know,
he actually encourages us
through the Bible
to get to know what these truths are.
Hmm.
These truths are revealed clearly here
in this Bible text
at 1 Timothy 2:3,4
that I’d like to read to you.
It says:
“This is fine and acceptable
“in the sight of our Savior, God,
“whose will is that all sorts of people
should be saved and,”
notice this part,
“come to an accurate knowledge of truth.”
Hmm.
OK.
Not half-truths.
Right.
So God is really concerned about us
coming to an accurate knowledge of truth.
Now,
do you think that this is possible
if we dedicate time
researching the Bible
on a superficial level?
No, I don’t think so.
You can’t come
to accurate knowledge like that.
It’s impossible.
Yeah, I think the same way.
It really means
that we have to investigate
in what God is trying to tell us
in such a large book.
Hmm.
You know,
I have this book with me
that has this very interesting theme
“What Does the Bible Really Teach?”
Hmm.
Sounds interesting.
And it reveals
what those Bible truths are.
I would like
to get this available to you.
I only have it in English.
OK.
How can I do this?
Well, I have to leave now.
I have to go to work,
but I’ll give you my contact information,
and then we can make arrangements.
Oh, that sounds great.
Yeah.
OK.
No doubt you saw how
Sister Martinez was able to use
things that they had in common
to help the man reason about the point.
Now, we’ve seen so far,
students preaching in the train station,
peoples’ homes, a parking lot.
Well, really,
Jesus set the example
about reaching people
wherever they may be.
Notice in Matthew 9:9,
there in Matthew 9:9,
it says there:
“Next, while moving on from there,
“Jesus caught sight
of a man named Matthew
“sitting at the tax office,
“and he said to him:
‘Be my follower.’
At that he rose up
and followed him.”
So Matthew
was sitting at the tax office.
He was in his place of employment.
So Jesus preached in business territory.
Well, we do the same thing today.
We preach in business territory.
We try to reach people where they are.
Now, back in the first century,
we know the main theme was the Kingdom.
This was the theme of the preaching work.
This is still the case today.
This is the theme of the preaching work.
In our last reenactment,
it takes place in a beauty salon.
Our sister is coming back
to the woman’s place of business
in order to cultivate the interest
shown in the very first conversation,
and notice how she
directs attention to the Kingdom.
Hi, Deanne!
Hi!
It’s so nice to see you again.
Today I brought a video to show you.
It’s called Does God Have a Name?
Does God have a name?
. . . at a time and place
convenient for you.
So as you saw in the video,
we all have names
to identify ourselves.
Your name is Deanne,
and my name is Claire.
So wouldn’t it make sense for God
to have a name to identify himself with?
Sure, that makes perfect sense.
And did you know that the name Jehovah
is in the Bible about 7,000 times?
Wow!
If it’s in there that much,
it must be important.
You know, Claire,
I do read the Bible every day.
And I’ve been trying
to get closer to God,
but it’s not easy.
You know,
I’m so busy running the business
and looking after my children.
And that’s another thing,
I’m constantly worried about my children.
The world is just getting so bad.
I wonder about their future.
Yeah, I can imagine that it’s not easy.
But it’s good
that you’re looking to the Bible.
In fact, today I wanted
to show you a verse
from Daniel 2:44,
it says:
“In the days of those kings
the God of heaven
“will set up a kingdom
that will never be destroyed.
“And this kingdom
will not be passed on to any other people.
“It will crush and put an end
to all these kingdoms,
and it alone will stand forever.”
Perhaps you’ve heard of people
pray the Our Father,
and they’re asking
for God’s Kingdom to come.
They want to see God’s will done
on the earth as it was in heaven.
And really, that’s what
this Kingdom is talking about.
It’s God’s government to bring
an end to suffering in the world.
I would really like to see that change.
Yeah, we all want to see
an end to suffering.
But what do you think?
Do you think God really has the power
to bring about these changes?
Of course!
I think he has all the power.
Yeah, that’s right, he does.
And, you know, he also wants
to see an end to this suffering.
In fact,
that’s why it’s so important for us
to try and learn as much as we can
about his purpose for the earth.
I would like to learn more about God
and what he’s going to do for the future.
Yeah, that’s so good.
I really enjoy speaking
to you about this.
I was thinking, do you usually work here
on Saturday mornings?
I do.
I work here just about every Saturday.
So if you come, we can sit down
for a few minutes and talk.
Oh, I would really appreciate
if we can have a little bit
of time together
to talk about that subject.
Sure.
Thank you so much.
It was nice to see you today.
You too.
Bye-bye.
Our Gilead students
have been doing a very good job
directing people to the Kingdom
as the only true hope for mankind.
Now, in the first century,
our brothers and sisters faced
many of the challenges
that are common today.
How should they
view higher education,
how to keep focused
on spiritual goals,
how to avoid the dangers
of bad association?
Well, our Gilead students have faced
these very issues successfully.
And the decisions
that they’ve made in the past
have helped them be here today.
Now notice how our students
met the various challenges posed
by what to do
with higher education,
potential distractions
from their spiritual goals,
and avoiding bad associations.
Would you like to meet
some of our Gilead students
and get to know them
just a little bit better?
Well, we have with us
Brother and Sister Mbanzulu,
Fall and Sulamite Mbanzulu,
from Congo Kinshasa.
We have Brother Elipaz
and Nancy Rosenzvig, from Israel,
and Sister Turkijana Gasi,
from Serbia.
And we’re glad to have
all of you with us.
Brother Mbanzulu,
let’s start with you.
What spiritual goal did you set
for yourself as you were growing up?
I wanted to be a special pioneer.
Well, that’s an excellent spiritual goal
for a young man.
Now as that—
Once you set that goal, however,
a potential obstacle arose.
Yes, this happened
when I was 14 years old.
My father said to me that he
would support me financially
and even pay for my education
if I would like to be
a lawyer or a physician.
So he offered you
free higher education.
Yeah.
But you had
this other spiritual goal in mind.
Yeah.
What did you do?
I kindly explained to him
that I had the goal to be
a special pioneer,
so I declined his offer.
Well, that sounds like a good thing.
You kept your focus on spiritual matters.
What did your father think about that?
He was very disappointed
because he didn’t expect that answer.
He said to me
if I did not take his offer,
I will have to support myself.
And if, in the future,
I have to face some difficulties,
I should not go back to him.
And he even mentioned
that I was no longer his son,
and that hurt me deeply.
But I’m happy
that I made that decision,
because otherwise
I would not have benefited
from the highest education
—the divine education
that I’ve enjoyed in Gilead.
Well, we know
that was not an easy situation
to face as a young man
—quite a lot of faith and spiritual focus—
and we’re glad that you did that.
So you went ahead with your goal
to special pioneer.
So when did you
become a special pioneer?
I never did.
What happened?
I was invited to serve in Bethel,
and I accepted that invitation.
Well, we know
that Jehovah’s blessed you there too.
Yeah, I received
many blessings in Bethel,
and one of them,
actually, is my marriage
with Sulamite.
It’s really a gift
coming from Jehovah.
And Sulamite loves Jehovah
and supports me in my service.
Yes.
Well, Sister Mbanzulu,
now, your father was Muslim.
Yes.
And what did he think
about the family being Jehovah’s Witnesses?
My father never opposed the truth.
He saw that this was good
and even encouraged us.
All right.
So that allowed you to set spiritual goals.
Yes.
What spiritual goal
did you set for yourself?
I wanted to be a special pioneer.
That’s an excellent spiritual goal!
And what did your family
think about that goal?
My immediate family was supportive.
But others in the family
pressured me to pursue
higher education and travel to Europe.
That could have been a temptation,
but it was a trap.
Spiritual education is far more valuable.
I’m glad I made a good decision
—the right choice.
Well, so we’re glad too.
So both of you
had to stay spiritually focused there.
So you went ahead with your goal
of being a special pioneer.
When did you become a special pioneer?
I didn’t become a special pioneer.
I was invited to serve
at Bethel for two weeks,
and then I was invited
to stay in Bethel service.
Well, that’s good.
You both remained focused on spiritual goals
but flexible to Jehovah’s direction,
and we’re glad that you did.
Brother Rosenzvig,
now, you come
from a very spiritually active family.
What did your parents do to raise you
in such a fine spiritual environment?
It’s true,
today when I’m looking back,
I see that my parents did so much.
In addition to our family study,
my parents studied
with all five of us separately.
They went with us to service;
we read together the daily text.
And also my father,
he prayed with each one of us every night.
So, what influence did all that
have on your spiritual routine?
So I still pray every night with my wife.
And recently,
I asked my brothers and sisters
if they have the same habit until today.
And all of them said, “Yes.”
So all of us pray every night
like we did with our father.
Excellent.
Well, I know that you
met a spiritually-minded sister
in your congregation;
you got married.
And then what did you do
to make yourself more available
to pursue spiritual goals?
So we began to simplify our life,
we avoided financial obligation,
and we expanded our ministry.
After a while,
we were invited to Bethel.
Well, that’s excellent
—wonderful invitation.
I’m sure you were very excited.
Now, when that happened, though,
a potential distraction arose.
Yeah, my employer,
he really wanted me to stay.
So he offered me a big raise,
stock in the company, a car.
But the real riches are found
in the full-time service.
And look!
Here we are, getting the divine education
that Jehovah provides.
Yeah, very true.
Now Sister Rosenzvig,
so when your husband received
the invitation to Bethel,
obviously it’s to you too,
and you also had some potential distractions
come at the same time.
True.
The same week
we were invited to Bethel,
I got a phone call from a company
that offered me a well-paying job.
And just before that,
I had said no to a full scholarship
to pursue more education.
And both of us got
so many offers during that time,
it was very clear somebody
was not happy about our decision.
Yes.
Now your first name,
Sister Rosenzvig,
doesn’t sound very Israeli.
How did you come to be called Nancy?
So my father
is from an Arabic background
and my mom
from a Jewish background.
As you know, in Israel,
it’s not so common
for a Jew to marry an Arab.
But this is what’s so beautiful
about our organization.
And the brothers and sisters in Israel
really give a good witness in this regard.
But still my parents decided
to make both sides
of the family happy
and gave me an American name.
That’s very diplomatic of them.
And how did your parents help you
to have a spiritual environment
in which you could set
good spiritual goals?
Both of my parents are
really good students of the Bible.
And I would always see them
prepare for the meeting,
and we would never miss a meeting
without a good reason.
Additionally, my mom,
before she got married,
she was a special pioneer.
Both her and my dad,
they loved talking about Jehovah
and going out in the ministry.
I know that your mother
also made considerable effort
to cultivate your love for the ministry.
Yes.
There is one experience I really remember.
I was very young.
She took me to preach
in unassigned territory
in a city near Mount Hermon,
and we preached for some hours.
And after that,
she took me to eat my favorite food
—hummus and french fries.
Ah, and how has their example
influenced you until today?
Until today, I have good study habits,
I have deep appreciation for our meetings,
and I love talking about Jehovah.
And I still like hummus and french fries.
Now, when you were in school,
you were different
from all of the other children.
All of the other children were Jewish.
And we know that as a young person,
it can be especially difficult
to be different from everyone else.
How did you handle that?
For a while, I found it difficult
to speak about my religion at school,
but then I thought to myself,
‘I need to be proud
that I am one of Jehovah’s Witnesses.’
So I just decided to speak
with one of my classmates.
And when I told her, she said,
“Oh, now I understand
why you are so different.”
And the conversation went so well.
I felt relief, and things were
much easier at school after that.
So, what advice would you have
for young people who are in school today?
I would say: “Just be proud that you
are one of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
“We are serving the best God,
“and tell your classmates
about it as soon as possible.
“That will make you happy,
and more important,
it will make Jehovah happy,
and he will bless your efforts.”
Yes.
Sister Gasi.
Sister Gasi, you serve in Serbia,
you live there,
but you didn’t grow up there.
No, I was born in Kosovo.
I grew up in the Roma culture
with the Muslim background.
All right.
I know that your father
is fairly well-known in the Roma community,
and there are some deeply held traditions
that had an impact on you
concerning your schooling.
Yeah, culturally
among the Roma people it was expected
that the oldest girl stop going
to school when she is quite young.
So my father wanted me
to stop going to school.
And honestly, I was very unhappy
because of that
because I really loved going to school.
So I explained—
I told my father
that I will respect his decision,
but also I took the opportunity
to explain to him
that I wanted to pioneer.
I explained to him what it means,
and he agreed.
Well, that was very good.
So you respected your father’s wishes
but also clearly set out
your spiritual goals.
We’re glad he supported you in that.
But now that you’re out
preaching in the town
that must have called attention.
Yes. A neighbor approached
my father about it,
and he said: “You’re Muslim.
Why do you allow your daughter
to go house to house?”
And my father told him
he never had a problem with his girls
since they started to study the Bible.
Well, your good conduct spoke out there.
Now, we know that, unfortunately,
war broke out in the region
and Kosovo was affected.
And at that time,
there were no brothers in the area,
there was no congregation, no meetings.
And even your father and brothers
were not there at that time,
leaving you,
your sister, and your mother
to rely on Jehovah there.
And we know Jehovah can do that,
but that can be very stressful.
But there was
an additional situation that arose.
Tell us about that.
Our neighbor
had a basement in his house,
and many of us
—where our area was bombed—
many of us took shelter there.
Physically it was safe,
but people talked
about how we were going to die
and about the horrible things
that could happen to us,
and it was very discouraging
to listen to that.
I realized that it was bad association.
I had to make a change
to keep spiritually alive.
All right.
So you had the basement
which served as a bomb shelter
giving physical security,
but it came with bad association.
So you said you had to make a change.
What did you do?
We stayed home,
we read the experiences
from the yearbook,
we held the meetings in our kitchen,
and also we read
and studied the Bible,
we prayed together.
This built up our faith,
and Jehovah helped us to endure.
And what has been the result?
Jehovah has given me
the best school here at Gilead
and also the best association
with my fellow classmates.
Well, we thank all of you for sharing
some of your experiences involving decisions
that helped you be here today
with Jehovah’s blessing.
Well, the scene of the world is changing,
but our faithfulness to Jehovah
remains steadfast.
May Jehovah continue to bless the students
of the 141st class of Gilead
and the entire worldwide brotherhood
as we work shoulder to shoulder
to Jehovah’s praise.
Thank you very much.
We always enjoy
the experiences in the field
as well as their personal experiences.
Next, Brother Ronald Curzan,
a helper to the Teaching Committee,
is going to interview
others from the class.
And the question in his theme
is “How Will You Use Your Gift?”
We all love gifts.
We love to receive gifts,
and we like to give gifts.
And where do we get that from?
The originator of gift-giving,
Jehovah God.
He loves to give
‘good gifts and perfect presents.’
And of Jehovah’s gifts,
Insight on the Scriptures says
that ‘Assignments of service
in God’s organization
‘are really gifts from Jehovah.
‘Those favored with assignments of service
by God’s undeserved kindness
are also called “gifts in men”’.
And we can say gifts in women.
And what do they do with this gift?
‘They’re given to the congregation
in order that its members individually
might be built up
and attain maturity.’
Gilead School is a precious gift from Jehovah
that has enabled 141 classes to do just that
—build up their brothers and their sisters.
The question is,
How will the 141st class use this gift?
Let’s find out.
We have four students
that we would like to interview
—two single students
and a married couple.
First of all, we have Anita Schumi,
who is originally from Austria.
We have Ben Pritchard,
from Britain,
and a married couple
from the United States,
Niell and Deanne Ryan.
In preparing for this interview,
it was very heartwarming to learn
that all four of you received
a precious gift from Jehovah
and that is being raised
in the truth by God-fearing parents
who instilled a love
for Jehovah in your hearts
as well as the pioneer spirit.
So eventually all four of you pioneered.
But here’s a question.
We’ll start out with Anita.
What other gifts of service
did you receive from Jehovah
before coming to Gilead?
After my schooling,
I moved to France and started pioneering.
There were many Tamil-speaking people
in the territory,
so I started learning that language
and finally moved to Asia.
Then I was invited
to serve in the Tamil field
in Germany as a special pioneer.
And after seven wonderful years there,
I was sent back to Asia,
where I now am.
Thank you.
And, Ben.
A few years after attending
the Ministerial Training School in England,
I was assigned to Burkina Faso,
in West Africa,
serving as a missionary, which is where
I’ve been serving up until now.
A big challenge for me was learning
the local African language called Mooré.
And after about a year or so
of learning and struggling with the language,
I wasn’t really up to reading the paragraphs
or saying a prayer at the book study.
However, it was
at that point that I was invited
to take up the traveling work
on a circuit in that very language.
In fact, the first full-length talk
that I did in the language
was the needs of the circuit
at the circuit assembly.
But with holy spirit and a lot of patience
on the part of the brothers,
I was able gradually to get
to grasp with the challenge.
Jehovah certainly helped you.
Deanne.
Well, after Niell and I were married,
I went and joined him at Brooklyn Bethel,
and we served there together until 2004.
And then we left to assist family,
and we pioneered together.
And then in 2009,
our circumstances opened up
and we reapplied for Bethel service.
However, we were encouraged at that time
to pursue other theocratic goals.
So that’s when we started considering
serving in a foreign country.
And I must say,
we were definitely nervous
about going to another country—foreign.
But we prayed about it,
and we did research.
And then we wrote 31 letters
to various branches
to see if we could serve in their territory,
and we got invited to serve in Ghana.
So we’ve been at the Ghana branch
for almost six years now.
And although we
were very hesitant at first,
we’re very glad we moved,
and we enjoy that assignment very much.
So, no doubt, serving in a foreign country
has so many blessings,
so many rewards,
but also it has its challenges.
So how have the local brothers and sisters
become “gifts in men” and gifts in women
to help you to adjust?
Anita.
Not only did they give me
a lot of practical help to settle in,
they also patiently explained
to me the meaning
and the feelings behind cultural habits.
And that’s worth so much in order to adapt.
So despite cultural differences initially,
many brothers
—they took me in like family.
I realized how much more I have in common
with my brothers in other countries
than with people from my birth country
or my language or my color
who don’t love Jehovah.
Listening to my brothers express their love
for the same Father I love
and seeing how he blesses them
and helps them
as he helps me,
I feel very close to them.
I feel at home.
We have a family wherever we go in the world.
We don’t only call each other
brothers and sisters,
we really are.
What a gift!
And through their marvelous example
—many in this family—
they taught me
valuable lessons in endurance,
patience, devotion,
hospitality, and so on.
They trained me
so that I could even come here.
They are a very precious gift to me.
Thank you for sharing that.
Ben.
My color means that everywhere I go
I stand out as different to everyone else.
Serving in the traveling work in rural areas,
it’s very, very rare to see white people.
So the word that I hear
called out to me by the local people
more than anything else
—from morning to evening—
is Nasara, which means “white man.”
It means that whatever efforts you make
to learn the local language and the customs,
you’re nearly always viewed as an outsider.
So in contrast, though, the friendship
and support that I enjoy
from the local brothers
really is a gift.
Being taken in by the brothers,
eating with them,
living with their family,
and being treated by them as family,
whilst outsiders look on
—perhaps surprised—
that really is special.
A favorite moment for me in service
is when an African brother
working with me
will introduce me as “my brother.”
Sometimes the reaction
from the householder is:
“How can he be your brother?
He’s white and you’re black.”
Then often the reaction will come
from the brother,
“Well, he’s more my brother than anyone
born in the same village as me.”
So when you hear that kind of statement,
in those circumstances, it’s really a gift.
But more than that,
I think that the support and friendship
from so many brothers
in my assignment has helped me
to keep a positive attitude.
And I can really say it’s because of that,
it’s because of them,
that I qualify to be here
and to enjoy
this undeserved privilege of Gilead.
Because of that,
I really feel the responsibility
now to go back, get to work,
and to pass onto others
the gift that I’ve been privileged
to receive here.
Thank you.
And going to Ghana,
what about you, Deanne?
What do you think
about the local brothers and sisters?
How have they helped you?
I really appreciate the kindness
of the brothers and sisters in Ghana.
They go out of their way to help you.
And I remember
when I was new to the country,
going out in the ministry,
I met so many interested people,
but I worried how was I ever going
to find them again
because the territory oftentimes doesn’t have
street names and house numbers.
So I would just write
a description of where I was.
And the brothers and sisters were so kind.
They wouldn’t just tell me
how to get back to my return visits,
they always physically took me there
even if they had to go
out of their way to do it.
And that kindness has been repeated
in so many different ways.
I don’t have time to relate,
but it helped me not only to adjust
to my assignment in Ghana
but also to stay in it,
and even to be able
to come here to Gilead today.
And, Niell.
I’d say being in a new assignment
away from family and friends,
you definitely have your ups and downs,
especially in the beginning.
But that scripture at Colossians 4:11
helps me to see that my brothers
can be “a source of great comfort”
or “strengthening aid” to us.
And we definitely felt
that with the Bethelites
there in Ghana and the congregation.
They were like a second family to us.
They invited us over
for hospitality right away.
If you looked a little down,
you got an extra warm smile
or a hug or an arm around you.
They just accepted us
as a part of their family.
I can definitely say
that’s one of the main reasons
why we’re still in that assignment.
And we really appreciate this gift
of the worldwide brotherhood.
It’s really helped us
to be where we are today
—tasting of this undeserved kindness.
So a recurring theme that “gifts in men,”
gifts in women,
really has helped you to adjust.
And I’m sure you will use that going forward.
Now, you have received
many gifts of training at Gilead
thus far over the last couple of months.
Is there a specific gem or a gift
that has really touched your heart
that you would like to share with us?
So often I was made aware
of how little I measure up
to Jehovah’s image in my personality.
And that awareness is good
for developing more humility,
but it can be
also quite discouraging at times.
It’s a struggle to come to that sound mind,
that balance between I’m not always
an outstanding success,
but I’m not a constant failure either.
The course was a marvelous training
in how not to concentrate
on my strong points only
—that’s unrealistic—
but also how not to concentrate
on my weaknesses only
and then despair,
because that’s unhealthy as well.
And that ignores Jehovah’s mercy
and his patience with us.
And he showers us with his affections
and wants us to feel joy in serving him.
So I will continue to pray
for Jehovah’s help in this regard,
because I want Jehovah to feel more joy
when he watches my thinking and my feelings
become more balanced, more pleasing to him.
Very well expressed.
We’ll remember that.
And, Ben.
For me, one point was regarding Abraham
who after having as good as offered up Isaac,
never understood for the rest of his life
the reason why Jehovah asked him
to do that specific thing
as a test of his faith.
However, he didn’t then
go on to negotiate with Jehovah
—either beforehand or after—
as he had done 25 years before
with Lot and Sodom and Gomorrah.
He didn’t obsess with the questions:
“Why? Why would Jehovah allow me
“to go through such a traumatic experience?
Why? Why? Why?”
He just got on
with faithfully serving Jehovah.
And in the resurrection he,
unlike us who understand the reason why,
he will come to understand
the reason why and will feel privileged.
So the application that was made—
The question was asked of us,
“What is your personal Isaac?”
Perhaps a situation in this system of things
that we’ll never be rid of,
or a change of assignment, a reassignment,
another difficult change in our service.
Rather than obsessing with the questions:
“Why? Why me?
Why did this happen?”
Like Abraham, we should
just carry on serving Jehovah loyally.
Deanne.
I really was affected by the lessons
in the “Growing Spiritually” section.
In one of them, the instructor
used a vivid illustration about—
He said we shouldn’t let
the 20 weeks of Gilead pass by
without lancing the boil
and cleaning out the pus.
Well, as a nurse,
I instantly got a mental image of that
because if someone does have chronic boils
and they don’t do anything about it,
it could make them very sick.
So I thought in a spiritual way
if through my in-depth study of the Bible
I found negative qualities in my personality
and I did nothing about it,
that spiritually
that could infect my whole personality
and make me spiritually sick
and then not as useful
to Jehovah as I could be.
And, Niell, a gem for you.
Well, time and again,
it was sounded down into our minds
and deep within our hearts
that one remains useful to Jehovah
as long as one remains humble.
So I thought about that,
that if I begin to think
that it’s all about me
or if it’s about my wife, Deanne,
and really forget the much larger picture
—it’s about Jehovah’s sovereignty,
his name, the disciple-making work,
and loving and assisting the brothers
we’ve been sent there to assist.
Well, then we begin to focus on ourselves,
and we damage
our relationship with Jehovah,
and we damage those
that we’ve been sent to help.
So throughout the course,
Scriptural warnings were studied
on King Uzziah, King Saul, and Korah
who started out
as humble but they went—
they lost that humility
and became very prideful.
They forgot the place
that Jehovah had put them in.
And I won’t forget a point made
by a Governing Body member
that was relating what Brother Knorr
used to say to the students
—to Gilead students.
He said that if you leave Gilead
with a bigger head than a bigger heart,
then we have failed you.
And so we want to be
very willing to be humble
and do whatever
Jehovah has asked of us.
So how do you plan on using
this beautiful gift of Gilead training?
Anita.
The whole Gilead experience
has stressed how much Jehovah
cares for each of our brothers.
For example, at 1 Kings 10:9,
we learned that Jehovah
put Solomon in place as king,
not for Solomon’s glory,
but he was used as a channel
for Jehovah to show His love for Israel.
So likewise,
Jehovah gave us this training here,
not for our glory,
but for our brothers.
He equipped us to show
how to take care of our brothers
in a more loving way,
to transmit the gifts
and Jehovah’s love to them,
make them feel his care,
and strengthen their attachment to Jehovah.
So I am eager to return
and try my best to do just that
—as a little thank you to Jehovah
for the marvelous time here
but also as a thank you to my brothers
back home to whom I owe so much.
Very good.
And, Ben.
It’s true that Gilead has given us knowledge,
but Gilead isn’t about knowing things.
So I want to keep in mind
what Ephesians 3:19 says,
‘The love of the Christ surpasses knowledge.’
Which means taking knowledge
and then transforming it
into experience by imitation
—imitation of Christ.
So I hope to be
a better imitator of Christ
as I go back
and serve with the brothers.
But that means
not just imitating Jesus in my actions
but also coming to have
the same feelings
that Jesus has about things
and about people.
In addition to that,
Jehovah really has used—
has given me
so many “gifts in men” here at Gilead
that have helped me
to increase my love for him
but also to have a real deep affection
for the organization that he’s using.
So as I go back,
I want to be a factor in helping others
to come to see how much
Jehovah loves them
and see how wonderful
the organization that he is using really is.
And last, we’ll hear from the Ryans.
Deanne.
At Psalm 78:5-7,
it speaks of parents
making known Jehovah’s reminders
to the next generation so they
can put their confidence in Jehovah.
And I’d like to do something similar
when I go back to Ghana,
especially with the young ones,
to share the many spiritual gems
that I’ve been given
so that they can more fully put
their confidence in Jehovah.
So I’d like to do that whenever
I see them at the meetings,
or talking before and after,
working with them in the ministry,
when they come over
to visit me in my room at Bethel,
really, whatever opportunity
I have to share those gems with them.
And 2 Timothy 2:2 reminds me
that after we’ve received
this beautiful training,
we have responsibility,
and that is, in turn,
to teach or train others.
So as I go back to my assignment,
I hope to keep learning
from the brothers and sisters there
but also to share these gems
and gifts with them.
Not as a heavy downpour
that drowns our brothers and sisters,
but as a gentle shower
that encourages them.
For example,
I’d love to work with the young ones
and share the experience of young Samuel
when he went to the tabernacle
and how he served Jehovah faithfully
despite the wicked influence
of Eli’s two sons,
and that they too can be faithful
despite the negative influence
of this world around them.
If we share these gifts
with the brothers and sisters
—like a gentle shower—
we’ll show that we haven’t missed
the purpose of this Gilead training,
and that is to encourage
and strengthen the brothers
and bring honor and glory to Jehovah.
We’d like to thank all four of you
for your heartfelt comments,
and you really expressed yourselves so well,
and you represented
the rest of your class so well.
So with Jehovah’s help,
we know that you will use
all the gifts
that have been given to you
to be a gift to all those
in your assignments.
Thank you.
Thank you very much Brother Curzan.
That was very refreshing.
Appreciate them sharing those thoughts.
Now we invite you to stand
and we’ll sing this beloved song,
number 29,
“Walking in Integrity,”
song number 29.